I recently covered an unofficial desktop
version of Hermes Agent and you all seem
to love it. But, there was one major
limitation. It wasn't actually built by
Nous Research, the team behind Hermes
Agent, and it lacked many of the
capabilities available in the full
Hermes experience. It was essentially a
community project designed to make
Hermes more accessible through a desktop
application. But now, that's changed cuz
just yesterday, Nous Research team
officially launched the Hermes desktop
application. A brand new native app that
brings the full Hermes Agent experience
directly onto your machine. And this is
a big deal because this isn't some
lightweight clone or a separate product.
Hermes desktop is built around the same
exact agent that powers the CLI and
gateway versions. That means the same
configuration, same API keys, same
sessions, same skills, memory systems,
and the same autonomous workflow is
present. If you've already been using
Hermes through the terminal, everything
you've configured carries over
automatically. Likewise, anything you do
inside the desktop application is
reflected throughout the rest of the
Hermes ecosystem. If you want to test
models the same way I do on real vibe
coding tasks with my prompts, the World
of AI Arena benchmark and vibe coding
platform is live and you can easily get
started with the links in the
description below for free. For those
unfamiliar with Hermes Agent, it's one
of the most interesting open-source AI
agent projects right now. And in my
opinion, I believe it to be the third
ranking harness that is available right
now. It's built by Nous Research under
the MIT license and Hermes is designed
as a persistent autonomous system that
continuously evolves over time. And as
you use it more, it keeps on improving
and becomes even better. It can run 24/7
off of your own infrastructure while
building long-term memory, creating
reusable skills, and developing deeper
understanding of your project,
workflows, and preferences. But, to get
started with this desktop app, head over
to the Hermes website, which I'll leave
a link to in the description below. And
one thing you will notice right away is
that Hermes desktop is supported with
Windows, macOS, Linux out of the box,
making it accessible regardless of your
operating system. If you've been using
AI coding agents lately, you probably
noticed something. The model alone isn't
enough anymore. The real bottleneck is
infrastructure and integrations, and
that's where Zapier comes in, which is
also today's video sponsor. Zapier's new
MCP plus SDK infrastructure lets AI
models like Claude, GPT, and Gemini
actually take action across your apps
instead of just generating text. So,
your agents can interact with tools like
Slack, Gmail, Notion, HubSpot,
Salesforce, and so many others without
manually wiring APIs together. What's
really cool is the multi-model approach.
You're not locked into a single AI
vendor anymore. The same workflow can
run across different models, which is
super important with how fast models and
policies change right now.
You can even build approval flows and
permission systems directly into
workflows, so agents can stay in control
within production. So, if you want to
build AI workflows that actually do
things instead of just chatting,
definitely take a look at Zapier MCP
plus SDK infrastructure with links in
the description below. After clicking on
the download button for whatever
operating system you're installing for,
open up the script, and then you can
click on install Hermes. This is where
it's going to install all the packages
and make sure that it is functional for
your operating system.
Something else worth mentioning is that
Hermes web dashboard also received a
major overhaul. What was previously more
limited has now evolved into a
feature-complete administration panel
that can be managed entirely through
your browser, and it makes it much
easier to monitor, configure, and manage
your Hermes deployment from anywhere.
But back over to the desktop
installation, it looks like it is ready
now and we can simply go ahead and
launch Hermes. We can simply click on
this button and this will open up the
desktop application, which will import
over all of your configurations from the
CLI directly into this new desktop app.
And there we go. We have our Hermes
agent desktop app fully configured and
opened up. Now, if you don't have it
configured, what you can do is simply
click on the settings gear on the top
right and what you can do is within the
settings, you can configure everything.
This is where you can enable all of the
different sorts of configs like MCPs,
approvals, session search, as well as
vision. I would recommend that you
enable everything and then select
whatever model provider you want to use.
You can use News Portal, which I think
offers a free model right now and looks
like it is true cuz they are offering
step 3.7 flash completely for free for
the next 30 days through News Portal.
You can also use your Open AI plan
directly within Hermes, which is
something that I usually do and it'll
auto detect it directly within the main
provider app. So, simply go ahead and
click apply. Once you have configured
that, you can also change something like
the appearance and this is where I'm
going to be switching it over to mono
cuz I personally believe looks a lot
better than what we have right now.
If you want to tweak and manage your
skills and tools, click on this left tab
where it states skills and tools and
this is where you can enable all of
these additional functionalities to
enhance your overall usability of Hermes
agent. These are different tool sets
that will make it even better like
having it add in a context engine or
something that can process your memory
better or image generation. What you can
also do is within messaging, you can
route your Hermes agent through all of
these different avenues like WhatsApp,
Discord, Telegram, like you would
previously with OpenClaw. But, what's
great is that you're basically getting
skills management, a ChatGPT-style
interface, tool integration, messaging,
artifacts, and a multi-agent workflow
all in one place. And the best part is
it's not a separate product. It's
exactly the same Hermes agent running
underneath, and this is with everything
I mentioned at the start, memories,
skills, sessions, configs, and
autonomous workflows that you get CLI.
And this is the kind of evolution that
takes AI agents from a tool for
developers into something that everyday
users can actually run. Now, let me just
showcase what you can practically do.
This is where I am taking one of my
prompts from my prompt catalog, a part
of the World of AI benchmark and Vibe
Coding Platform, which I'll leave a link
to in the description below, and this is
something that we just launched today.
And essentially, what we're going to be
doing is testing how how proficient
Hermes agent is in delegating multiple
tasks to build out a full front-end app
for us.
You can see right away that it is going
to be able to use any of the skills that
I have installed, like cloud design as
well as the popular web design. I can
even implement any skill to help us
accomplish this task for us. And what's
also nice is that you can attach
anything like files, folders, images,
pasting URLs, and you can even use these
prompt snippets to help you get started.
But, what I really like is if you click
on this panel over here, this is where
you can manage all of your different
files directly within the application,
which is actually kind of helpful cuz
you can essentially use this to help you
work with Hermes while also visualizing
everything on this panel. You have the
ability to also access your terminal
within this panel, which is where you
can run commands too while the Hermes
agent is working on your specific task
that you sent in.
There we go. Just like that, it was able
to showcase the live design of what it
had generated within this right hand
panel and you can see that it did a
great job with this lining PHP stuff the
prompt that we had sent in. What's also
nice is that now that this app is
natively localized, what you can do is
set up cron jobs, scheduled jobs so that
you can essentially have it accomplish
many of these different types of tasks.
It's able to do anything like web
search. In this case, I'm telling it to
go on to Reddit, find discussions about
AI agents, and summarize the sentiment,
and then create a report and have it
saved locally. What I can do is rather
than me using up my token plans with
Codex or Claude code, I can simply just
have Hermes agent with a cheaper model
to essentially run these different cron
jobs. Like to have it work on
accumulating different types of AI news
every single morning so that whenever I
am drinking my coffee, I can read
through all of these scheduled reports
that it was able to condense every
single day thanks to Hermes agent
autonomously running for me.
And remember, you can actually run
multiple sessions simultaneously. This
is where you can deploy multiple sub
agents as well, and you can see that I'm
opening up two tabs to essentially
accomplish two different tasks at the
same time. So, it looks like it finished
running this task and it has created our
analysis on AI agents from Reddit and it
talks about the sentiment. So, this is
something that it was able to accomplish
within a couple of minutes and that was
definitely a nice little task that you
can schedule every single day.
But, that's about it guys for today's
video on the Hermes agent desktop app.
This is definitely a great new
advancement, especially for the open
source community, and this is something
that I would highly recommend trying out
as it is something that mimics exactly
what all of these different AI
applications from proprietary giants try
to accomplish. This is something that
you can use completely for free with
these different integrations and it gets
the job done in a nice manner. And it's
obviously going to be letting you use
Hermes Agent a lot more accessible
easier than what we had previously. But
with that thought guys, I hope you
enjoyed today's video and got some sort
of value. I'll leave all these links in
the description below. If you haven't
already, make sure you take a look at my
World of AI benchmark and valve coding
platform. Subscribe to the second
channel. Join the newsletter. Join the
Discord. Follow me on Twitter. And
lastly, make sure you guys subscribe.
Turn on notification bells. Like this
video. And please take a look at our
previous videos so that you can stay up
to date with the latest AI news. But
with that thought guys, have an amazing
day. Spread positivity and I'll see you
guys really shortly. Peace out, guys.